So we've seen some problems with
just using the core cert package.
Although if you have something
that's really simple,
it's not the worst option.
One thing that can help us solve
these problems that we had
with a cert is both this protocol
which is gonna give us some
output to look at so
that we can see what tests we've run.
And it also has ways of determining,
that we've run the correct
number of assertions so that if we
forgot to call a callback somewhere,
or if the programme called
process that exit zero,
that those cases are also gonna
be caught by our test suite.
So this is a very old protocol,
I think I'm not completely sure, but
I think It first appeared
in the test suite for Perl,
which is a old programming
language from the 80s.
And it's just a very simple
way of doing assertions.
So I can show you what
some of these looks like.
So here is some real tap output,
the lines begin,
the first thing you see
is the TAP version.
You can put whatever other kind
of stuff you wanted in any line.
So it's kind of common convention to use
a pound because in Perl that's in bash.
That's what the comments looks like.
And then you see different
assertions on their own line.
So the main thing that tap
specifies is that lines that
have a successful assertions
will begin with okay?.
And then they'll have
a sequence number after it,
that increments in lines that have
failures, we'll begin with a not okay.
And they'll have the sequence there.
And then, the other very important thing
is this, which is called the plan.
So this specifies the number of
tests that were supposed to be run.
So this is a way with libraries
that implement the test protocol,
how they can say, well,
there should be 20 tests running,
if there's not 20, if there's more
than that, or less than that,
probably I'm not calling
a callback somewhere.
Or I'm calling a callback twice or
there's like some way that
some branching happened.
That's not what I meant.
It's not 100% of a way to ensure
the flow through your program,
but it does catch most of the simple
kinds of errors you might make.
Okay, so on the chat,
Tony asks what was in that file,
file.txt, it's just this content.
So just three lines.
It says one, two, three and
there's a trailing newline.
So right cat- v was it?
I think anyways.
Okay, so that's an example of what
a successful test run looks like.
Let's go ahead, I'm just gonna modify the
test suite here to add in a failing test.
So I'm gonna say t.ok(false),
just to give you an idea for
what a failing case looks like.
So here we see the line
that says not okay.
We have the sequence number, so
the sequence number always increases.
This is just a not yet another way that
the tap protocol can kind of just ensure
that things are happening generally
in the correct order, but
it does it automatically.
And then it's up to
the individual libraries, but
a lot of them will provide extra
information in these little blocks.
Okay, so, I'm just gonna put that
back now and we see that it works.
Also when you see these things like here,
you're gonna get more into NPM scripts in
a bit, but we see this line npm error.
It's hard to read on the screen,
npm knows that our test script
failed because the testing
library set a nonzero exit code.
So set an exit code that was
nonzero which you can get out of
the command line with this dollar
sign question mark?, okay?